 Summer was going so well for the president, the White House threw a party last week with a concert by James Taylor. Mr. Biden's streak began in June when he signed a bipartisan gun safety law. Then in August over Republican objections, he signed the largest investment ever on climate change, a minimum tax on corporations, a law to lower prescription drug prices, and student loan forgiveness. But Tuesday, as James Taylor sang fire and rain, it seemed like both descended on the president's party, the Dow plummeted nearly 1,300 points after a dismal inflation report. At the White House on Thursday we spoke to President Biden about the economy, Ukraine, those top secret documents in Donald Trump's home, and whether Mr. Biden will run again. The president made news and will ignite a few controversies. The story will continue in a moment. Mr. President, as you know last Tuesday, the annual inflation rate came in at 8.3%, the stock market nose-dived, people are shocked by their grocery bills. What can you do better and faster? Well, first of all, let's put this in perspective. The inflation rate month to month was just an inch. Harley, at all, you're not arguing that 8.3 is good news. No, I'm not saying it is good news, but it was 8.2 or 8.2 before. I mean, it's not, you're, I can make it sound like all of a sudden, my God, it went to 8.2%. It's the highest inflation rate, Mr. President, in 40 years. I got that. But it gets to what we are. We're in a position where for the last several months it hasn't spiked, it has just barely been basically even. And in the meantime, we created all these jobs and prices have gone up, but they've come down for energy. The fact is that we've created 10 million new jobs, we're in a sense we came to office. We're in a situation where the unemployment rate is about 3.7% with the lowest in history. We're in a situation where manufacturing is coming back to the United States in a big way. And look down the road, we have massive investments being made in computer chips and employment. So I look, this is a process. This is a process. Is the economy going to get worse before it gets better? No. I don't know, mix up. We hope we can have it. They say a soft landing, a transition to a place where we don't lose the gains that I ran to make in the first place for middle-class folks being able to generate good-paying jobs and expansion. At the same time, make sure that we are able to continue to grow. And you would tell the American people that inflation is going to continue to decline. No, I'm telling the American people that we're going to get control of inflation. And the prescription drug prices are going to be a hell lot lower. Their healthcare costs are going to be a lot lower. They're basic costs for everybody. Their energy prices are going to be lower. They're going to be in a situation where they begin to gain control again. I'm more optimistic than I've been a long time. So with the federal reserve rapidly raising interest rates, what can you do to prevent a recession? Continue to grow the economy. And we're growing the economy. It's growing in a way that hasn't been years and years. How so? We're growing entire new industries. 695, I think it is, or 85,000 new manufacturing jobs just since I've become president of the United States. Continue to grow the economy and continue to give hard-working people a break in terms of we pay the highest drug prices in the world of any industrialized nation, making sure that Medicare can negotiate down those prices. By the way, we've also reduced the debt. We reduced the deficit by $350 billion in my first year. This year it's going to be over a trillion, $500 billion reduced the debt. So to continue to put people in a position, to be able to make a decent living and grow and grow and increase their capacity to grow. To see what he means, we went with Mr. Biden to the Detroit Auto Show last Wednesday. He celebrated his new funding of a network of charging stations for electric vehicles. But the newly crowded convention center brought a different question to mind. This president first Detroit Auto Show in three years. Is the pandemic over? The pandemic is over. We still have a problem with COVID. We're still doing a lot of work on it. But the pandemic is over. If you notice, no one's wearing masks. Everybody seems to be in pretty good shape. And so I think it's changing. And I think this is a perfect example of it. The car show was a reminder that gasoline prices hit a historic high last June. In part, because Russia cut fuel supplies in its war on Ukraine. Mr. President, the price of gasoline is down about 26 percent from the $5 high. What can you do to keep that price down while Vladimir Putin is throttling energy supplies? There are a couple things we've done. For example, remember I got some criticism for releasing a million barrels of oil a day from a strategic petroleum reserve. And then along came the industry saying they'd produce another million barrels a day by this frame. So I think we're in real to the good shape. Vladimir Putin is going to try to break your will on Ukraine and use energy prices to do it. But you know, we in the United States are in much better shape than anyone else is in relative to Russia, particularly. But he's been trying that for a while. He's not going to succeed. But he want to go to Washington, jump in. But at this very moment that Mr. Biden steered for the future, a 19th century form of transport threatened to wreck the economy. A deadline for a national rail strike was two days away. The White House brokered a deal Thursday after a 20-hour marathon of negotiations. One of the things that happens in negotiations, particularly if they've been a long day, like these have, is people saying do things where the pride gets engaged as well. And it's awful hard to back off of some of these things. They've both sat down in my view and I ran the office today saying, well, we finally figured out this is fair on both sides. And took that time to focus and the alternative was just not thinkable. What do you mean? If in fact they'd gone on strike to supply change in this country would have come to screech and halt, we would have seen a real economic crisis. The other crisis on the president's desk, Ukraine, was also improving last week, as Ukrainian forces recaptured about 3,000 square miles from the Russian invasion. If Ukraine winning the war, Ukraine through their significant help we and our allies are giving them, and the incredible bravery, the incredible determination of Ukrainian people are not losing a war and they're making gains in certain areas. Winning the war in Ukraine is to get Russia out of Ukraine completely and recognize the sovereignty. They're defeating Russia. Russia is turning out not to be as competent and capable as many people thought they were going to be, but winning the war, the damage is doing and the citizens and the innocent people are being killed, it's awful hard to count that as winning. Under the horrors of seven months of war, President Biden has called Russian President Vladimir Putin a war criminal. It has been barbaric what he's done. His attacks on civilian, everything from civilian hospitals to people's old age homes, to neighborhoods where ordinary people live, schools, schools, it's just outrageous. So the price Ukrainian people are paying for this war is extremely high, but we're going to stay with them as long as they need our help. You're already north of $15 billion in terms of those commitments. How far do you go? As long as it takes. Ironclad commitment. Yes. As Ukraine succeeds on the battlefield, Vladimir Putin is becoming the embarrassed and pushed into a corner. And I wonder, Mr. President, what you would say to him if he is considering using chemical or tactical nuclear weapons. Don't, don't, don't. It will change the face of war, unlike anything since World War II. And the consequences of that would be what? What would the US response be? You think I would tell you if I knew exactly what it would be? Of course, I'm not going to tell you. It will be consequential. They'll become more of a pariah in the world than they ever have been, and depending on the extent of what they do, determine what response would be. On the same day we spoke to the President, Putin met with China's leader Xi Jinping. There's concern that Russia's attempt to force reunification with Ukraine could inspire China to attack the island of Taiwan. The US policy since 1979 has been to recognize Taiwan as part of China, but remain silent on whether the US military would defend the Democratic government there. This is among the places where our interview runs into controversy. What should Chinese President Xi know about your commitment to Taiwan? We agree with what we signed on to a long time ago, and that there's one China policy that Taiwan makes their own judgments about their independence. We are not encouraging them or being independent. We're not letting that's their decision. But would US forces defend the island? Yes, if in fact there was an unprecedented attack. After our interview of White House official told us US policy has not changed. Initially the US will not say whether American forces would defend Taiwan, but the commander-in-chief had a view of his own. So unlike Ukraine to be clear, sir, US forces, US men and women would defend Taiwan in the event of a Chinese invasion. Yes. For the first time, Mr. Biden spoke about the classified documents that the FBI found in former President Trump's home. The Justice Department has opened a criminal investigation. Have you been briefed, sir, on the top secret documents that were found at Mar-a-Lago? No. No one has come to you to warn you that important national security secrets were revealed by the storage of those documents at the former President's home. I have not personally spoken to anyone on that regard. I'm sure my administration is aware of all of that. And so is the National Security Council, but I have not. Were you notified of the FBI's execution of a search warrant at Mar-a-Lago? No. Not ahead of time. The FBI spread the documents out on a floor to make a record of what was found. When you saw the photograph of the top secret documents laid out on the floor at Mar-a-Lago, what did you think to yourself? Looking at that image. How that could possibly happen. How one anyone could be that irresponsible. And I thought, what data was in there that made compromise sources and methods by that, I mean, names of people, helpters, et cetera? And it's just totally irresponsible. And you don't know what was in those documents. I had not asked for the specifics of those documents because I don't want to get myself in the middle of whether or not to just the department should move or not move on certain actions they can take. I agreed I would not tell them what to do and not, in fact, engage in telling them how to prosecute or not. When we come back, a surprising answer to the question of whether President Biden will run for a second term. At the White House last Thursday, President Biden told us he hopes to retain control of the House and the Senate in the midterm election in November. But given the president's job approval rating of around 40 percent, that remains to be seen. For his part, Mr. Biden has said he plans to run again in 2024, but here is another place where our interview may cause controversy. The story will continue in a moment. Sir, are you committed to running again or are there certain conditions that have to be right? Look, if I were to say to you, I'm running again, all of a sudden the whole range of things come into play that I have requirements, I have to change and move and do in terms of election laws. In terms of election laws. And it's supposed to early to make that kind of decision. I'm a great respecter of fate. And so what I'm doing is I'm doing my job. I'm going to do that job. And within the time frame that makes sense after this next election cycle here, going in the next year, making judgment of what to do. You say that it's much too early to make that decision. I take it. The decision has not been made in your own head. Look, my intention, as I said, to begin with is that I would run again. But it's just an intention. But is it a firm decision that I've run again? That remains to be seen. Mr. President, you are the oldest president ever. Pretty good shape, huh? Which leads to my next question. You are more aware of this than anyone. Some people ask whether you are fit for the job. And when you hear that, I wonder what you think. Watch me. I'm honest to God, that's all I think. Watch me. If you think I don't have the energy level of mental acuity, then that's one thing. That's another thing. You're just watching and keep my schedule. Do what I'm doing. I think that when I sit down with our NATO allies and keep them together, I don't have them saying, what do you want to say? I mean, it's a matter of that old expression, the proof of the pudding is in the eating. I respect the fact that people would say you're old. But I think it relates to how much energy you have and whether or not the job you're doing is one consistent with any person of any age would be able to do. How would you say your mental focus is? What's focused? I think it's, I haven't, look, I have trouble even mentioning, even saying to myself my own head the number of years. I know more think of myself as being as old as I am than fly. I mean, it's just not, I haven't observed anything in terms of, there's not things I don't do now that I did before, whether it's physical or mental or anything else. You have had a string of legislative successes recently. How's it all guy do that? But your approval rating in the country is well below 50 percent and I wonder why you think that is? This is a really difficult time. We're at an inflection point in the history of this country. We're going to make decisions and we're making decisions now that are going to determine what we're going to look like in the next 10 years from now. I think you'd agree that the impact on the psyche of American people as a consequence of the pandemic is profound. Think of how that has changed everything. People's attitudes about themselves, their families, about the state of the nation, about the state of their communities. So there's a lot of uncertainty out there, a great dilemma in certainty. We lost a million people, a million people to COVID. When I got an office, I got lucky, only two million people went back to me. I got 220 million. My point is it takes time. We were left in a very difficult situation. It's been a very difficult time, very difficult. And a difficult life for the president. In 1972, he lost his wife and daughter in a car accident. He lost his son Bo to cancer in 2015 at the age of 46. And his son Hunter has been a lightning rod for suspicion. Hunter Biden's former addiction to crack cocaine led to a life he describes as non-stop depravity. He has also acknowledged a federal investigation into his taxes. Congress investigated Hunter Biden's job with a Ukrainian company at the time that his father ran Ukrainian policy in the Obama administration. A Republican investigation, however, uncovered no wrongdoing by then vice president Biden. Mr. President, if you run again, Republicans are most likely to go after your son Hunter once again. And I wonder what you would like to say about your son. Whether any of his troubles have caused conflicts for you or for the United States. I love my son, number one. He fought an addiction problem. He overcame it. He wrote about it. And no, there's not a single thing that I've observed at all that would affect me or the United States relative to my son Hunter. Republican investigations are likely to resume if Mr. Biden loses either the House or the Senate. And history shows that presidents usually lose seats in Congress in a midterm election. If so, the president's remaining ambitions may be beyond his reach. For example, we passed the most extensive gun legislation in 30 years, although I'm not going to arrest until we get a salt weapons ban, which I did once before when I was a senator. The salt weapons ban. There's no rationale. There aren't running through the woods wearing Kevlar vests. Somebody came in and told you about your quality when it happened. And I wonder what you thought. Again, I've gone to every one of those places. And in your quality, I spent time with everything four hours, four hours. And the pain, pain, it was just so, so unnecessary, so wrong. Would that help me, it would get me going, but I met with every one of those families and the extended families for four hours. Look, our kids you've been learning how to read right, not duck and cover. Think about that. Think of the mental impact on these kids going back to school. You saw it. It's wrong. It's wrong. It's not who we are. But we've got to stop it. We've got to stop it. And the NRA continued to push the sale of a salt and semi-automatic weapons as bizarre. The much more modest bipartisan gun law that passed this summer may be the best example of the president's legislative breakthroughs that no one thought possible. How'd an old guy do that? He asked us earlier. We have a theory. Joe Biden is among the longest-serving politicians in Washington. If there is less bounce in the step than there once was, if the words don't flow like they used to, maybe there's something to be said for know-how, five decades on the hill and in the oval. Regarding politics, Mr. President, you were elected to the Senate in 1972. You were 29 years old. And in those days, it seemed that the parties worked together to move the country forward. And I think many Americans feel that that no longer happens and in fact may be impossible now. Well, I don't think it's impossible, but it's changed. We do today think about it. It's all personal attacks. It's about motive. It's not about I disagreeing on the subject matter. And secondly, I think that it's fair to say that we've not had a president like the last president who has made all but so personal. I've had six Republican senators. I promised I'd never say their name, and I won't come up to me in the last two years and say, Joe, I agree with you, but if I vote this way, they're going to primary and a losing election. It didn't used to be that way, but it's coming back a little bit. It's coming back. Do you see it? It seems to me, Mr. President, that when you first came to the Senate, the other guy had a bad idea. And now the other guy is a bad guy. And I don't know how you get back to that. Well, I tell you what, think about this. I was able to get a, we were able to get a bipartisan $1.2 trillion package done for dealing with the whole question of rebuilding the country, the roads and highways. The fact of the matter is we've gotten a lot of things done bipartisan. When everybody said, we're not going to do anything. Don't let Biden have any successes, et cetera. So it's still a way to go, but I think we're making some progress. You have lived a long life of triumph and tragedy. In November, you'll be 80. And I wonder what it is that keeps you in the arena. Well, look, I've had tragedies. I've lost part of my soul and I lost my son, Boeing. I lost my wife and my daughter in an accident. I think of all the people who've gone through what I've gone through and a lot more without what I had. I think credibly supportive family. There's so many literally heroes getting up every day, putting one foot in front of another with no help. I constantly think, what would Boeing want me to do? What would one want? And you know, this gets me a long way, this rosary. Catholic and devout, he keeps a rosary in his pocket and he showed us his other inspiration in a cartoon that his father had framed. In it, the Viking hagar confronts God after a lightning strike, a blow like those endured by the president. So he's looking up and once he says, why me? The next scene, a voice in heaven, why not? That's my dad. Why not, Joey? Why not you? Why not? What makes you so different? Just get up. My mom's a crush with. Just get up, get up, get up. And you feel you have more to give. I'm not more to give. I'm not more to give.