 After humiliating defeats in Ukraine, Russian President Vladimir Putin told his people that the U.S. has been on destroying the Russian homeland. On Wednesday he drafted 300,000 reservists and threatened nuclear war. This is not a bluff, he said. Ukraine dominated this past week's annual gathering of the UN General Assembly in New York, attended by President Biden and more than 120 world leaders. Friday we met the U.S. Secretary of State, Antony Blinken, to talk about a world of challenges and Putin's nuclear threat. The story will continue in a moment. How concerned should Americans be about the prospect of nuclear war? We've heard a lot of irresponsible rhetoric coming out of Vladimir Putin, but we're focused on making sure that we're all acting responsibly, especially when it comes to this kind of loose rhetoric. We have been very clear with the Russians publicly and as well as privately to stop the loose talk about nuclear weapons. privately. The United States has been in communication with the Kremlin about these threats of nuclear war. It's very important that Moscow hear from us and know from us that the consequences would be horrific and we made that very clear. You call the nuclear talk loose talk, but isn't Vladimir Putin telling us what he's going to do if he is backed any further into a corner? Vladimir Putin has a clear way out of the war he started and that's to end it. If Russia stops fighting, the war ends. If Ukraine stops fighting, you can ends. Is there anyone in the Kremlin who can tell Vladimir Putin know if he decides to launch a battlefield nuclear weapon? They have a chain of command whether it works or not to be seen, but I think what you're pointing to is a larger challenge and that is the Achilles heel of autocracies anywhere. There is usually not anyone who has the capacity or the will to speak truth to power and part of the reason I think Russia has gotten itself into the mess that it's in is because there is no one in the system to effectively tell Putin he's doing the wrong thing. In our interview last week, President Biden told us that he had a message for Vladimir Putin on the use of nuclear weapons. And don't, don't. He went on to say the US response would be consequential. What did he mean by that? I'm not going to get into what the consequences would be. Any use of nuclear weapons would have catastrophic effects for, of course, the country using them, but for many others as well. If you can't give us specifics about a US response, can you tell us that the administration has a plan? What do we do? Is it a plan that would prevent World War III? President Biden has been determined that as we're doing everything we can to help the Ukrainians defend themselves, as we're doing everything we can to rally other countries, to put pressure on Russia, we're also determined that this war not expand, not get broader. Excuse me. As we were speaking to Secretary Blinken, news broke that a UN investigative commission had found evidence of rape and torture of children in Russian-occupied Ukraine. The panel goes on to say, based on the evidence gathered by the commission, it has concluded that war crimes have been committed in Ukraine. What does justice look like for Ukraine? Justice looks like accountability, accountability for those who perpetrated these war crimes, these atrocities, as well as for those who ordered them. And it's one of the reasons Scott why we're doing everything we can to support those who are trying to compile the evidence and to investigate and ultimately to prosecute those responsible. To prosecute, do you believe there should be war crime trials? I was in Ukraine a couple of weeks ago. One of the places I visited was a city called Erpen, and I saw residential buildings, building block after building block, totally bombed out. This was the totally indiscriminate use of force. Wherever the Russian tide recedes, what's left in its wake is very clear evidence of atrocities and war crimes. The bodies I saw were not fake. Attracities were laid before the UN Security Council last Thursday, drawing from the Russian foreign minister a dubious defense. When Sergei Lavrov says that the atrocities have been staged and it is Russia that is the victim, Tony Blinken is sitting there thinking what? This is Alice in Wonderland. It's the world upside down. Up is down, white is black, with his false. But here's the things that got all of these words, all of these words ring totally hollow to every member on the Security Council. So this spewing of words is not having an effect. On the contrary, I think it just shows the total disconnect between Russia and virtually the entirety of the rest of the world. At the moment we spoke to the Secretary, Russia was hurrying through what it calls elections to force these areas of Ukraine's occupied east and south into the Russian Federation. These so-called elections are a sham period. They go in, they put in puppet governments, local governments, and then they proceed with a vote, which they'll manipulate in any event in order to try to declare the territory, Russian territory. It is not. It will never be recognized as such and the Ukrainians have every right to take it back. Blinken came to our interview after meeting China's foreign minister. China has been raising pressure on the Democratic island of Taiwan, which in our conversation last week, President Biden pledged to defend with force. So unlike Ukraine to be clear, sir, US forces, US men and women would defend Taiwan in the event of a Chinese invasion. Yes. But official US policy is and has been for decades to remain ambiguous about defending the island. China has acted increasingly aggressively. When it comes to Taiwan, that poses a threat to peace and stability in the entire region. The Chinese foreign minister must have asked you to explain the president's remarks. Well, we had a conversation about our different approaches to Taiwan, and I reiterated what the president has said and what he said clearly and consistently, our continuity adherence to the one China policy, our determination that the differences be resolved peacefully, our insistence that peace and stability be maintained in the Taiwan Straits, and our deep concern that China was taking actions to try to change that status quo. That's what the issue is. Blinken warns that turbulence in the Taiwan Strait would wash around the world. Taiwan itself were anything to happen. It is where virtually all the semiconductors are made. One of the reasons we're now investing so heavily in our own capacity to produce semiconductors here in the United States. We design them, but the actual production is done in a handful of places, and Taiwan produces most of them. If that's disrupted, the effects that that would have on the global economy could be devastating. Last week, on 60 minutes, the president of Iran told Leslie Stahl he would consider re-entering the deal to restrict Iran's nuclear weapons program. The Trump administration had canceled it. Blinken doubts that Iran is serious. Iran has continued to try to add extraneous issues to the negotiation that we're simply not going to say yes to. We will not accept a bad deal. The response that they've given to the last proposals put forward by our European partners have been a very significant step backwards. And so I don't see any prospects in the very near term to bring this to a conclusion. Anthony Blinken is 60. One of his grandparents was born in Ukraine. His stepfather survived the Holocaust, and his father was a U.S. ambassador. Blinken has spent 30 years in foreign policy for Democrats, mostly in the Senate and the White House. That's him in the back of the room during the strike on Osama bin Laden. His philosophy on American diplomacy is robust engagement with what he calls humility and confidence. If we don't engage, if we're not leading, then one of two things. Either someone else is, and probably not in a way that's going to advance our interests and values, or no one is. And then you tend to have chaos. You get a vacuum that's filled by bad things before it's filled with good things because the world does not organize itself. There's not a single big problem that's affecting the lives of our citizens that we can effectively solve alone, whether it's climate, whether it's COVID, whether it's the effect of all of these emerging technologies on our lives. We have to be working with others to try to shape all of this in a way that's actually going to make our people, as well as other people, a little bit more secure, a little bit more prosperous, a little bit more full of opportunity. Given January 6th, given the fabricated controversy over the election results, do you find that countries around the world are worried about the stability of the United States? It's no secret that we have challenges within our own democracy. They're playing out before the entire world. We don't sweep them under the rug, even when it's painful. So I'm able to say to other countries that bring these up, yes, we've got our problems, but we're confronting them. We're dealing with them. You might do the same thing. Your father was US ambassador to Hungary. As we sit here on Friday afternoon, he passed away last night. And I wonder why you decided to keep such a busy schedule the day after that tragedy in your family. My dad was 96 years old. He was in so many ways my role model. He built a remarkable business, one of the leading investment banks in this country over many years. He led a life of dignity, of decency, of modesty, that is something I've very much aspired to. And so I guess I thought that honoring everything that he shared with me, the best way to do that was to continue doing my job. That job for the foreseeable future will be consumed with a question that has defeated generations of diplomats. How to keep a small war in Europe from igniting the world. Are there any talks currently that we may not have heard about? There are no talks because Russia has not demonstrated any willingness in this moment to engage in meaningful discussions. If and when that changes, we will do everything we can to support a diplomatic process. Is Vladimir Putin losing this war? He's already lost in terms of what he was trying to achieve because keep in mind what he said very clearly from the start is his objective was to erase Ukraine's identity as an independent country. That has already failed. Ukrainians are fighting for their own land. They're fighting for their own country. The Russians are not. And these Russian soldiers who are being thrown into this conflict, often not knowing where they're going or what they're doing. This is not something that they want to be fighting for. The Ukrainians are fighting for their own future. They're fighting for their own land. They're fighting for their own lives.