 On February 24th, with the Russian invasion coming at him from three sides, Ukrainian President Volodomir Zelensky reached for his most powerful weapon, his phone. The moment Zelensky told his people he refused to flee, Ukraine refused to fall. Leaders don't become legends often, but over these nearly seven weeks this 44-year-old former comedian inspired his country to stand up to the overwhelming force of Russia. Last Wednesday, we were admitted to Zelensky's fortified war rooms to meet the man who stands between the Russian Army and the free world. The story will continue in a moment. We met President Zelensky in the blacked-out hallways of his command center in Ukraine's capital, Kiev. It is a fortress, crowded with troops, machine guns, mines, explosives, and a great deal more. Yeah, I'm fine, he told us. I feel pretty calm about it. Our guards are worried because there could be an airstrike. And when we get the air raid evacuation signal, we head downstairs. Mr. President, what has it been like working under these conditions? We found a way how to work. We don't have an other way. You found a way how to work. You don't have any other way. Slicking back into Ukrainian, he said, it has to be dark in here. You can't switch the lights on because a bomb could just fly in during an airstrike. You have troops sleeping. The President and his staff have lived here for 46 days now. Russian invasion plan expected Kiev to fall in three days, but that relied on one assumption that Zelensky would run. When everyone is telling you you need to go, you need to think. Before I do something, I analyze the situation. I've always done it calmly without any chaos. I might not be the strongest warrior, but I'm not willing to betray anyone. What did you tell your wife and children about your decision? I told them this is my choice, and I can't do it any other way. I'm the President of my country, I'm the President of our people. And even if I wasn't President, I would have stayed here. My family understood, not only understood, but fully supported my decision. It was the decision that saved Ukraine from immediate collapse. Good evening, everyone, he said. We are all here. Our soldiers are here. The citizens of the country are here. We are all here protecting our independence, our country, and we're going to continue. You have made a decision to give your life for your country if it came to that. I don't want to make myself out to be a hero, he said. I love my family. I want to live many more years, but choosing between running or being with my people, of course I'm ready to give my life for my country. For a man with 44 million lives in his hands, we found Zelensky, buoyant, gracious, humble, and brutally honest. The day before our visit, an angry Zelensky scolded the UN Security Council, where's the security he asked? In speaking to NATO, you called them weak. In speaking to the UN Security Council, you said, if you can't help, you shouldn't exist. Not very diplomatic of you. I wonder why you feel the need to speak so bluntly. Rajashtev diplomat, you? When you're working at diplomacy, there are no results. All of this is very bureaucratic. That's why the way I am talking to them is absolutely justifiable. I don't have any more lives to give. I don't have any more emotions. I'm no longer interested in their diplomacy that leads to the destruction of my country. A lot of countries have changed their mind about Ukraine and about our people, but I think we've paid too high a price for that. What must the world understand? We are defending the ability of a person to live in the modern world. We are defending the right to live. I never thought this right was so costly. These are human values, so that Russia doesn't choose what we should do and how I'm exercising my rights. That right was given to me by God and my parents. God was hard to find on our visit to Kiev's northern suburbs, which Russia occupied for weeks. Much of what we found will be difficult to watch. Behind San Andrew's Church there is a sandy trench, not quite full of civilian residents of the town of Buccia. Ukraine stopped the Russians here, 45 minutes from the center of the capital city. The Russian retreat was so hasty, it seems there was no time to cover up the war crimes. President Zelensky visited Buccia two days before our interview. What did you see in Buccia? Smert. Death. Brostas smert. Just death. Last Monday was the first time Zelensky saw with his own eyes what Russia has done in what Vladimir Putin calls the liberation of Ukraine. The day after our interview we found civilian neighborhoods in Buccia, blocks and blocks, scaled and blasted with no purpose but terror. Bodies and parts of bodies lay in the streets. Left out like trash Zelensky told us. No one knows how many victims are still in their homes yet to be found. There is a photograph Mr. President of you in Buccia with an expression on your face that you have not allowed your people to see during this war. And I wonder what we're seeing there is that heartbreak is it anger? It's anger. It's anger. It's anger. Because we don't understand the Russians, you can't really understand this world that there are people on this planet who give these orders and people who carry them out. In Buccia, neighborhood relief for the hungry and the homeless looked like World War 2 in cover. Valerie Metvianko was so angry about the senseless Russian bullet wound in his leg. We can't repeat what he told us in English. Some of the Russians were normal. Some of them were totally crazy. You could walk and they would shoot sometimes up in the air, sometimes at your legs, so you'd have to jump in front of them. Cars were run over by Russian tanks. Very brutal. Not human. We met Tatiana Dmitrevena, who compressed the occupation into a single word. Horror. Horror, she said. Gunfire was non-stop day and night. Thanks to God it all passed and we survived. It's simply a miracle. I had two grandchildren with me in the basement. I never thought I would live to see this horror. Mr. Zelensky told us that he couldn't believe that human beings could do something like this. We never believed it either. We are simply in shock. All of us. What evidence is there of war crimes across Ukraine? The Ukrainian Security Service has intercepted communications, he told us. There are Russian soldiers talking with their parents about what they stole and who they abducted. There are recordings of Russian prisoners of war who admitted to killing people. There are pilots in prison who had maps with civilian targets to bomb. There are also investigations being done based on the remains of the dead. Should Vladimir Putin be prosecuted for war crimes? Look, I think everyone who made a decision, who issued an order, who fulfilled an order, everyone who is relevant to this, I believe they are all guilty. Do you hold Putin responsible? I do believe he's one of them. That's what I believe. The slaughter of civilians could have been stopped, Zelensky told us. He's deeply grateful for the weapons NATO and the U.S. are sending around the clock, but he's bitterly disappointed the Allies refused to impose a no-fly zone over Ukraine. President Biden has called that an invitation to World War III, but in Zelensky's view, it's the kind of inaction the world has suffered before. Mr. President, in a speech to NATO, you said, quote, all the people who die will die because of you, because of your weakness. Are you saying that the West bears some responsibility for these atrocities? He told us, I remember, all of us remember, books about the Second World War and about the devil in uniform, Adolf Hitler. Are those countries who did not participate in the war responsible? Are countries who let German forces march throughout Europe? Does the world carry responsibility for the genocide? Yes, yes it does. When you have the ability to close the sky. Yes, it's scary that a world war could start. It's scary, I understand that, and I cannot put pressure on these people because everyone is afraid of war. Whether the world is responsible for this, I believe so. Yes, I believe so. Stand in front of the mirror every day and ask yourself, were you able to do something or were you unable to do something? You will find the answer in the mirror to this question and to another question. Who are you? That's what I believe. Perhaps Zelensky reaches for World War II because of his homeland's history of catastrophe. And because he's Ukraine's first Jewish president, Zelensky is 44 years old, holds a law degree, he's married with a son and a daughter. His family is safe somewhere in Ukraine. In this war, Zelensky is the leading man in a tragedy. He's a mere idea. He's worked his entire career to make people laugh. He was Ukraine's favorite comedian, whose sitcom was popular in Russia, too. In his show called Servant of the People, he played a high school history teacher whose anger at corruption in Ukraine explodes into a profane rant. A student posts the tirade and the teacher is elected president. In 2019, Zelensky turned parody into power. He ran on an anti-corruption platform and 173 percent of the vote. He was 41 years old. He brought longtime friend and business partner Andrei Yermak in as chief of staff. He's smart, he's strong, he's brave. He's a person who is self-made. Zelensky, it's not the leader of our heroic nation. I think he's the leader of the free world. Why do you say president Zelensky is the leader of the free world now? Because Ukraine defends not, just Ukraine. We defend all democracy. Zelensky has been defending Ukraine since his inauguration day. That green t-shirt which caught the eye of the world was no surprise to Ukrainians. He keeps fatigues in his office because he often visited the battlefront near the Russian border, where Ukraine has been in a shooting war with Russia since 2014. That was when Putin invaded part of Ukraine called the Donbos and seized Ukraine's Crimea peninsula. In 2014, before Zelensky was elected, a Russian anti-aircraft battery in Ukraine shot down an airliner killing 298 civilians. In our interviews, Zelensky told us he's been trying to warn the world that Putin will not stop at Ukraine. Since the president appears that the free world has calculated that the suffering of your people is not worth even the risk of a nuclear exchange. I think so. That's how it is. Some are using that politically as an excuse by saying we can't defend Ukraine because there could be a nuclear war. I think that today no one in this world can predict what Russia will do. If they invade further into our territory, they will definitely move closer and closer to Europe. They will only become stronger and less predictable. President Biden says he is outraged by Bucha. NATO leaders say they are outraged by Bucha. So what should they do now? Zbroen, number one. Weapons, number one. They need to be very serious about it. They definitely understand what I'm talking about right now. They have to supply weapons to Ukraine as if they were defending themselves and their own people. They need to understand this. If they don't speed up, it will be very hard for us to hold on against this pressure. The second factor is sanctions. Because we've found some things in sanctions that are easy for financial experts to circumvent, Russia has been circumventing them, and this is absolutely true. The Western world knows it. This shouldn't be allowed. This is not a movie. This is real life. Stop fearing the Russian Federation. We've shown we are not afraid. When we come back in the wake of the Bucha atrocities, President Zelensky tells the United States what he must have to survive. Friday, a Russian missile strike hit a crowd of refugees striving to escape eastern Ukraine by train. At least 50 were killed, five children. Ukrainian President Volodomir Zelensky calls it a war crime. Zelensky is fighting a powerful Russian assault on Ukraine's east and south. Russia has not seized its strategic objectives, so instead it shelling defiant cities to ruin. The one exception, at least now, is Kiev. In a feed of arms no one expected, Ukraine's outgunned army defeated the massive Russian force that had been ordered to take the capital city. The story will continue in a moment. Kiev survives for the moment, a capital of mummified monuments and 19th century grace. Before, it was a bumper to bumper city, with three million residents. But now the streets are congested only by shadows. Air raids are still a danger, but after nearly seven weeks, the siren doesn't quicken the step like it used to. Have you won the Battle of Kiev? Kiev. I think yes, but this isn't the final victory. I will only be able to tell after we win this war. When we liberate our country, then I'll be able to tell. Because Bucha is part of Greater Kiev, Bucha, Urpin, Hostile, if the people of those towns were wiped out, then did we win this battle? I'm not sure. We've withstood and we did not give up what is ours, but whether we won, I can't say. No one expected Ukraine to fight Russia to a standstill. And I wonder how did you manage? We united as a nation, even though our people understood that they would be outnumbered tenfold and there would be no way out, just no way out. We fought for our existence and for survival. This the combined heroism of everyone, of the people, of the authorities, of the armed forces, we became a single fist. We saw the Ukrainian punch in the town of Bucha, where the remains of a Russian armored column rusted dead in the street. Neighbors hold up for weeks, emerged to remember what victory looks like. No one seemed in a hurry to deal with the bits of Russian soldiers in the wreckage. The full story of how the outmaned Ukrainian army stopped the invasion of Kiev will fill history books. But we already know part of it. Because the Russians believe the Kiev would fall in a matter of days, they literally did not bring enough food or fuel for their armored columns. On the other side, the Ukrainians had been trained for years by the California National Guard and other U.S. units. When the invasion happened, the United States, Britain and other countries flooded Ukraine with lightweight, shoulder-fired anti-tank missiles. How much difference have American arms made in this war? Well, they're helping. Frankly speaking, I would have wanted more. I don't know if I have the right to say that, but the fact that the United States has helped a lot is true. Zelensky's man, in charge of arming Ukraine, is chief of staff Andrei Yurmech. When we met, he just finished a two-hour call with U.S. National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan and the chairman of the Joint Chiefs, General Mark Milley. Yurmech asked for heavier weapons faster. First, there was artillery. The second we need a tanks, we need a military jets, and we need everything which gives to us the opportunity to close our sky. When you ask the Biden administration for artillery, tanks, jet airplanes, the administration says what? We have very deep and very detailed conversation. This is American presidents who is done for Ukraine more than all other presidents. But then you have the war and we are openly set. We need more. It's not enough. We need it as soon as possible. If we receive this support in time, we will win. A White House official tells us Yurmech got a yes to his request, but filling orders takes time. The Ukrainians need Russian-made weapons that they already know how to use. The U.S. is cajoling allies to ship their Russian gear now on the promise that the U.S. will replace it later. America has thrown in nearly two billion dollars in military aid. From the Ukrainian point of view, of course, nothing is fast enough. One bombardment is escalating in the east and south. Cities are being shelled to ruin, including Mary Upole with 450,000 residents. What are you expecting now in the east and in the south? We think this will be a new wave of this war. We don't know how much Russian weaponry there will be, but we understand there will be many times more than there is now. It all depends on how fast we will be helped by the United States. To be honest, whether we will be able to survive depends on this. I have 100 percent confidence in our people and in our armed forces, but unfortunately I don't have the confidence that we will be receiving everything we need. And so what are you asking of President Biden? To tell you the truth, long ago I asked President Biden for very specific items, he has the list. President Biden can enter history as the person who stood shoulder to shoulder with the Ukrainian people who won and chose the right to have their own country. This also depends on him. You are frustrated with President Biden. No, I'm not disappointed. I don't know how another president in his place would help us. I don't know. It's difficult. We have a good relationship, I think so at least. Ukraine depends on the support of the United States and I as the leader of a country at war, I can only be grateful. As for the other president at war, we asked Zelensky if he would meet now face to face with Vladimir Putin. He told us it was worth the chance. They wouldn't resolve everything Zelensky said, but they might stop the killing. Are you willing to give up any part of Ukraine for peace? Overall we're not ready to give away our country. I think we've already given up a lot of lives, so we need to stand firm for as long as we can. But this is life. Different things happen. It's negotiable? Well, this issue would definitely be raised in the course of negotiations. We understand the Russian side. We understand one of their provisions that has always talked about is to recognize Crimea as Russian territory. I will definitely not recognize that. And they would really like to take the southern parts of our country. I clearly understand that questions like this will be raised in negotiations if there ever are any. But we were not ready to give up our territory from the beginning. Had we been willing to give up our territory, there would have been no war. Mr. President, in almost every speech to your country, you say that Ukraine is going to win. What does winning look like to you? But a more victory. First of all, our people would definitely feel victory. They will come back. The return of refugees is blood for the body of Ukraine. Without them, there's nothing. The bombardments would end. We would recover our territory. There would be no Russian soldiers in our country. Yes, I understand they will not withdraw from Crimea and will be arguing and negotiating for one territory or another in the south of our country, the Donbass. I know exactly what has to happen after which we can say this is victory. But if you don't mind, I'm not going to talk about it just yet. First President, we wish you all the luck in the world. I need half of it, I think. Even half will be enough. Voloda Mirzalinsky has borrowed more luck than anyone expected. With the reprieve of Kiev, Ukraine has turned mirror admiration into credibility. Since people are suffering grievous loss every hour, but they have proven there was a moment in Kiev when they silenced the guns of Russia. Leading from the front, more from President Voloda Mirzalinsky at 60minutesovertime.com